Experimental Data Analysis

Experiments were conducted to assess the benefits of a soft exosuit developed by the ARIES 
Research Group on the economy of walking. In these experiments, healthy subjects were instructed 
to walk on level ground, up flights of stairs, and down flights of stairs while their O2 and CO2
consumption was being measured by a portable gas analyzer (K5, COSMED). Participants did these 
tasks with and without wearing the exosuit. 

Your task is to process the experimental data and recreate the results. Consider the exercises from 
Tutorial 2: Signal Processing.
The Dataset
The assignment relates to the provided dataset available on Moodle in Abschnitt 13. Inside the zip 
folder are four collections of data in .xlsx format. “NA.xlsx” is data collected without any exosuit 
assistance. “WA.xlsx” is data collected with the assistance of the exosuit. “QSN.xlsx” is data collected 
during the quiet standing period without the exosuit. “QSW.xlsx” is data collected during the quiet 
standing period with the exosuit. The datasets were collected during the level ground walking 
portion of the experiment. The included video “WalkingTrials.mp4” shows a subject performing the 
level ground walking trial wearing the exosuit and gas analyzer.
Preprocessing

Calibrate the data using the quiet standing datasets. The subject can be assumed to be “at rest” 
after two minutes of quiet standing.

Step 1: Isolate the O2 and CO2 data for this period and convert to SI units.
Step 2: Use Peronnet and Massicotte's equation to calculate the metabolic cost of quiet 
standing.
Step 3: Determine the calibration offset to use for the trial datasets.
Figure 1: Test subject wearing the exosuit being evaluated. Figure 2: Test circuit of the experimental trials
Step 4: Plot the O2, CO2, and metabolic costs for this period of both datasets. Print the value 
of the calibration offset on the plot. Take care that your plot is easy to read and interpret.

Data Analysis

Step 1: Calculate and plot the net metabolic cost over time for the experimental trials (with 
and without the exosuit).
Step 2: Calculate the normalized cost of transport (COT) for each case.
Step 3: Plot the COT over time for each case. Print on the plot the mean COT and mean 
walking speed for each case. Calculate and print the metabolic cost savings as a percent 
change when using the exosuit.